This is a good start.
I think we covered things.
I think it's important to point out, you know, the librarians, we were talking about material in France that you thought was pulp.
You mentioned Darton and his book.
I think it was bestsellers and pulp types of things.
A librarian doesn't make
doesn't make choices on what's in the canon and what isn't.
You don't really necessarily make qualitative decisions, do you?
Well, I'm not a librarian.
I understand that, but I mean librarians and libraries, maybe, is what I'm saying.
I know you're not a librarian, but you head up a library, certainly.
But answer that any way you want.
There's one thing that they're missing.
Oh, this is great.
This is terrific.
That's important.
You're not a librarian.
Why don't you just follow that a bit?
I mean, it's easy for someone to assume that you are because you are the president and the chief.
officer of the uh right well the one of the interesting things about this the people who attended the summit 50 let's say and fully half of us were not librarians professional librarians three were poets and i'll give you the speech that has all this too because it sort of breaks it there were p the charlie purse at the morgan has a phd in english does the english 18th century as i do the french 18th century billington is an historian um
You know, there were ethnographers, philosophers, career civil servants, historians, medievalists, all kinds of different people that have taken over the running of the World's Great Libraries, in part.
Very significant, isn't it?
Fascinating.
And... Sorry.
It's okay.
I had no thought of it.
And can we also have the speech that I did the evening of the summit, the dinner speech?
Okay.
On...
who we are as a group of library leaders.
Remember that speech?
This is—what's your first name?
Elaine.
Cunningham, right?
Cunningham, right.
This is the—okay.
This is the one about the— Oh, great.
Oh, excellent.
Oh, great.
It turned out that this Jesuit des Hôtels was also a French-Canadian ancestry and was a scholar himself in the French
So, you know, I kind of found my roots and my identity by using him as a prison in some ways.
It's a complicated story there.
This is David Lemmick's piece, the main reading room.
These are two more profiles.
One, this is the news story when I was at 20, that's the profile, and then this is the more recent profile that was done.
Oh, this is great.
Where were we?
We were talking about these people who came here from the summit.
Oh, yeah.
And you say it's a fascinating development.
Well, but I don't know.
Maybe development is the wrong word because Lesson was the head of the library.
Goethe had the great library in Weimar reporting to him.
Lessing, Doris, you mean?
No, Lessing, the German playwright.
No, no, no.
I'm thinking of literary librarians, you see, people like Borges.
Well, Borges, right.
Well, the man in Argentina now is a poet who heads the library there.
The head of the National Library of Brazil until two weeks ago was a poet.
He was just sacked because he refused to have one of his people
recant something she had said negatively about the government.
The head of the National Library of Spain was a poet.
He was just deposed with the change of government in Spain.
Gerta, Lessing, who else did you think of?
That's great.
Well, think about it.
If any pop up, jot them down, maybe.
Okay.
No, but don't stray from that, because you wanted something.
No, I think that the management of libraries is within the research library and university library community.
It is frequently put into the hands of non-librarians.
Is that good?
It doesn't seem to be bad.
I mean, these places are flourishing, I think.
In part, it's a function of the kinds of jobs that we have, because we're an interface between the library and those sectors of the public that we need to support the library, political and philanthropic, as is the case here specifically in New York for me.
And the library has been choosing a series of presidents who come out of academic backgrounds with substantial administrative experience in running big, complex organizations.
that have, and people here at the New York Public, at least, who have a tradition of personal scholarship as well.
And I think that's a, well, these jobs as I see them require people who are kind of multidimensional, who can,
who passionately believe in the value of books and scholarship and have done it themselves and written books on the one hand, but people who can negotiate with city government and people who can be successful in raising very, very substantial amounts of private sector support to run the library.
Most people don't know that the research libraries in the New York Public Library are private libraries.
I say that in here.
I say it all the time.
The New York Public Library is public only in spirit.
That's right.
It's a private library.
And the fact that you embrace everyone, everyone's welcome.
That's right.
But the funding is totally outside of the realm of the city government.
We have to raise $600,000 a week to run this place.
That's not to build the endowment.
That's for operations.
Wow.
That's $30 million a year that we have to bring in.
Staggering amount of money.
And the BPL, I think, is... They're, I think, moving more into private sector support.
So the president here has to be able to carry on a nice conversation over dinner with a donor or potential donor.
Thanks, Elaine.
This is really a test to see if my files are... Elaine, I'm sorry.
I apologize.
Okay, so this is Paris.
I promise, that's it.
Is that what you want to call it?
Perfect.
Okay.
These are all brief speeches, as you'll see.
And by the way...
any quote whatever quotes I use in this book I'll run by you I'd like to get it right and give you a chance to there won't be any surprises right and that keeps me in good stead and that's why I haven't had any complaints on this book wonderful book thank you you know it's almost noon and I know you've got a
Is there anything that I haven't done with?
No, you've really done with.
This has been wonderful.
Please come back to see me.
I'd like to.
I'm a great admirer of yours.